The study course is composed for a combined study methodology and includes asynchronous and synchronous study activities, as well as the necessary support materials for asynchronous study activities. The study course covers methods of regulatory theory and develops skills in parameter calculation. The essence of the study course is related to regulating the parameters of a technical object to a specified level; moreover, the object must be able to adjust the output parameter value according to the control signal. In most cases, these control signals are generated based on information about the current parameter values of the object. Skills in designing control processes in basic automatic control processes are acquired. Students learn to solve tasks related to the regulation of analog electrical engineering objects, calculate feedback, decompose systems into stages, as well as characterize stages, create models, and transition to frequency characteristics. Students evaluate system parameters, including system stability assessment. The design of control loops for closed systems is examined. Transition processes in systems, their quality improvement, and regulator parameters are studied, along with analog and numerical modeling. Progressive computational methods will be applied to solve systems of differential equations, transform them into algebraic form using Laplace transforms, and find the roots of characteristic equations to assess the performance of control systems. Examples of numerical control applications using MalLab software are discussed. Throughout the course, students use a high-performance platform for complex calculations, solving differential equations, and characteristic equations using the MatLab programme. The goal of the study course is to develop students' understanding of control systems, their structure, and the main principles of system analysis, as well as to enhance students' skills in designing automatic control systems and calculating system and regulator parameters.
The objectives of the course:
- to teach understand the structure of automatic control systems;
- to teach apply substitution schemes;
- to teach perform calculations of system elements and compute the system's static error;
- to teach assess system stability in both stationary and dynamic modes;
- to teach analyse and evaluate the quality of other processes;
- to develop skills in using high-performance computing technology for stability assessment;
- to develop skills in using digital tools for calculating regulator parameters.
Students independently solve 10 tasks and defending them. Students prepare themselves for laboratory work, study how to ensure the quality parameters of the transition process, independently process the measurement results, perform calculations, prepare a report, substantiate the obtained data, defend the results.
